---
layout: post
title: Birthday presents
tags: blog
---

It's one of my oldest friends birthday today, so I thought I'd take the chance
to talk about birthdays themselves as a tradition.

I'll admit, I'm not a fan of them. Always struggled with the question "what 
do you want for your birthday?" I think a lot of people run into that issue.

If you've got something that you need, you tend to just buy it (barring 
circumstances where you simply can't afford somethign). If you can get by 
without it, you obviously don't need it. Wants themselves are a bit weird in 
that it's likely the sort of thing you would use if you had it, but if you lost
it, would you really think to replace it?

I remember having an iPod Touch when I was younger, had it for close to two 
years, during which I would use it every single day. I imagine it was pretty 
close to what we would consider a smartphone nowadays - you can get on the web,
download apps, read things, watch videos. I didn't have a mobile connection so
I could use it anywhere, but it would be my go to thing to use when just 
sitting around the house.

After two years of using it every day, I lost it. Must have been when I was out
and about, because searching the house turned up nothing at all. Now, you'd
think that would pretty upsetting, losing a part of your regular day so 
abruptely, with no forewarning.

It barely broke my stride. I think a big part of that was that it didn't fufill
any essential requirement. It was something I used only for entertainment 
purposes, pretty much, which meant it was pretty easy to replace it with one 
thing or another. Watch TV instead, or play games on a console. It was 
something I wanted and was glad to have, but once it was gone it didn't give me
any grief.

So it puts me in a mindset for birthdays. What is it that is actually worth 
getting, that I would be sad to be without, that I can put off getting now so
someone else can get it for me later?

The go to for a lot of people I know is clothes. You're always going to need 
clothes, and it doesn't matter if you don't use it right away, because clothes 
aren't the sort of thing to expire (unless it's a fashion trend in the moment).

Clothes also work because people tend to make presents a connecting point 
between giver and receiver. We have movies in common? I'll get you a film for 
your birthday. We met in a cooking class? World's best chef apron, obviously.
Together we hunt and kill people, a serial killer pair? A new set of carving 
knives, how thoughtful! You can get a particular brand you both like, or a 
top similar to a one the other person complimented.

Later on, they might wear that top, and the gifter gets that warm fuzzy 
feeling. That's what gifting it about, really. It's for the gifter more than 
the receiver. Feeling good about having given something, and then being glad 
to see or hear that it is being put to good use.

I'm not a fan of waste. If I get something and it just sits there, unused for 
years before I throw it out, it's a little reminder that I'm wasting space, 
wasting materials that could have been put to better use. I get called frugal 
because I don't like to buy things, but I'm convinced it's not about money, 
it's about only having the essentials. I'll cop to not following that 
philosophy with digital elements of my life, but digital things take up such 
little space, that for the most part those things barely cross my mind. I'll 
likely never have to throw anything digital in the bin (except some Google 
documents that I'm so ashamed of I can't bear to look at).

I signed up for the library a few months back. I don't think I've owned a 
library card since I was something like ten years old, but it's kind of 
wholesome, part of living in a place. One of the big upsides, in my eyes, is 
being able to have a physical book without having to keep it. I know that I 
could afford a book if I wanted to, but I think I own and keep about 3 books at
my place currently. They only feel like they're taking up shelf space.

My friend is somewhat similar to me, I think. Not sure what they really want. 
Maybe it's because they only want what they need, and they already have the 
things they need.

I think I'll just put some money in a card. They'll use it when they know what 
they want, hopefully.
