---
layout: post
tags: blog
title: Pacifist Dungeons and Dragons
tags: dnd sleet
---

Recently I've been playing a Dungeons and Dragons campaign where my character 
grew up in a violent setting, but has decided to be a 'better' person. She 
refuses to hit any enemies and she's also deathly afraid that using her magic 
will start her down a slippery slope.

If you've played DnD, you might be thinking "what the hell are you doing in 
combat, then?" There are a lot of combat encounters and while you might be 
able to spec a pacifist character for out of combat situations, it's hard to 
make them helpful.

One method is to make them exclusively a healer. One of the best 
recommendations I've seen is to go for a [College of Lore Bard][CoLB].
Spellcasting means you can be helpful to your team, keep them going, you can 
give inspiration as a bonus action and use various skills to help the team out.

Intimidation can be a big deal, since it can effectively wipe out an enemy in
one move. RP this well and you can take out half an enemy team in one move at
the outset of a fight, making the whole thing a lot easier. You can do this 
again when a leader is taken out, potentially bringing the fight to a close.

Of course, healing isn't an option if you aren't prepared to do magic. The 
medicine skill is pretty useless (completely pointless if you have a healer's 
kit), since you can't use it to heal someone. There is the option to take the 
Healer feat, which allows healing using a healers kit, but it still makes the 
medicine skill pointless for anything other than stabilising people who go 
down. I'm of the opinion if you are preparing for the guarantee of your 
teammates going down, you're already losing, especially since you have no plan 
to hurt people yourself.

So, we've got Intimidation which we can rely on, though you'd need to find 
creative RP reasons to use it, and Deception so that you can get your party 
into places they otherwise wouldn't make it to. Since you have lots of 
proficiencies from College of Lore, might as well get your Perception up and 
ability in Insight wouldn't hurt as well. Of course, most of these are still 
out of combat abilities which aren't going to work out so great when you are 
facing off against a dragon or a dozen guards.

So what can you do?

Help your teammates.

I should clarify, when I say Help, I mean Help, capital H. It's one of the 
actions you can take on your turn instead of attacking and honestly, if you 
aren't dealing that much damage, it's one of the most powerful things you can 
do for your team.

So what does Help do. "The target gains advantage on the next ability check it 
makes to perform the task you are helping with." Pretty simple, but if you are 
helping your spellcaster with something that deals 4d10 or something 
ridiculous, it's far more helpful than making an attack of your own.

Intimidation is another good move, since it can result in the Frightened 
status effect, putting your enemies at disadvantage. Act like the leader, 
combine with Deception with promises of what you will do to them, promise 
curses on their future generations and the slaughter of their family, etc.

Depending on how you interpret them, you may be able to justify Cutting Words 
and Vicious Mockery as non-magical, though Vicious Mockery does deal psychic 
damage. I know my character, Sleet, doesn't consider psychological damage as 
something violent, something which has put her a bit at odds with the rest of 
her group, who are all completely fine with tearing enemies limb from limb, 
but get kind of uncomfortable when Sleet ties up her captives and starts 
performing 'rituals' on them to turn them into monsters.

Pacifist characters can absolutely work, but it's important (and a lot more 
fun) if they are contributing to the conflict in some way. There are few 
things more satisfying than stopping the fight and convincing the enemies that 
they are actually working for traitors to their own cause, or scaring an enemy 
so much they drop to the floor bawling. 

The reason you go for a character like a pacifist is because you want to do 
things no one else can. You put limiters on yourself, and you figure out how 
to creatively work around those flaws. Whenever I do, it's the most fun I've 
had with a game.

[CoLB]: https://www.quora.com/What-is-the-best-class-for-a-pacifist-in-D-D-5e
